Project name: Pass to Survive

First and last name of the author: Adiyat Abubakirov, high school student

Background: So, this is a project that I made when I was 13 years old. At that point, I took the course of Mobile Application Development, taught by one of the Samsung departments, "Samsung Innovation Campus." At the end of the course, I had to make a game, so this is that game.

Project description:
- This game is a platformer that has 2 levels and 2 skins for the player model. The first skin is pretty basic, and the second skin is a character from one of my favorite Japanese series; it is automatically placed on the player’s model after 20 deaths in the game. It was added to the game as an Easter egg. Levels are divided into two parts with smooth transitions. Everything in this game is animated except static objects of worlds. There are two different "Game Over" screens and two different "Win" screens. After completing one level, the player will be prompted to complete another one. The game works in native resolution and native refresh rate of the phone. The game was tested on Pixel 1, Pixel 2, Samsung Galaxy Fold, and some old devices. The game works perfectly on phones with Android 7 and higher. By the way, I made it on Java 17 and Android Gradle Plugin 7. So if you open it in the latest Android Studio version with newer Java, it could give you some warnings, but the code will work. On older Java and/or Android Studio, it may not be able to work.
- I used LibGDX (a game engine for Android Studio based on Java) to implement gravity, jumping, bouncing, etc. In LibGDX, there are vector classes for vector quantities, such as force. In the course, there were no tutorials for game development. The course was just teaching how to develop apps. So, I did a self-study of LibGDX in order to implement it into my project. Sometimes, the player model seems to be touching the hazardous, but it does not because the hit box of the player model is a rectangle of size smaller than the graphical model of the player. You can see it in game if you turn on one command in the level class where you want to see it. The hit box of the player is made by LibGDX, and the hit boxes of other static objects are made by tmx files (files for maps that include these hit boxes and graphics).
- Some assets were taken from the internet; some others were made myself using Adobe Photoshop.
- If you want an explanation of my code, I included comments in the project code and more explanation in the PowerPoint presentation, which is located in the common app. The presentation was created back when I was creating this game.
- There is also gameplay video located in the same place as the PowerPoint presentation. The video shows parts of each level, all "Game Over" screens and "Win" screens. Levels are very long and really hard to complete, so that's why in some moments, the screen suddenly changes in the video. The video doesn't show a second skin. The video has a 30 fps frame rate, but the game supports any refresh rate and resolution.
- I also included an apk file for you to try the game on your Android device; it is also located in the same place as the video and presentation. The game only works on Android phones.
